In problems of a small dataset.
Having clean and
consistent labels is especially important.
Let's start with an example.
One of the things I used to do is use
machine learning to fly helicopters.
One things you might want to do is take us
input the voltage apply to the motor or
to the helicopter rotor and
predict what's the speed of the rotor.
You can have this type of problem,
not just to find helicopters before
other control problems with
controlling the speed of the motor.
So let's say you have a data
set that looks like this where
you have five examples.
So a pretty small data
set because this data
set that is the output Y is pretty noisy,
is difficult to know what is the function.
It's difficult to know what is
the function you should use to
map voltage to the rotor speed in rpm.
Maybe it should be a straight line,
something like that.
Or maybe something like that.
Or maybe it should go up and
then be flat like that.
Or maybe it should be a curve like that.
Really hard to tell when
you have a small data set.
five examples in noisy labels.
It's difficult to fit
a function confidently.
Now, if you had a ton of data, this
data set is equally noisy as the one on
the left, but
you just have a lot more data.
Then the learning algorithm can
average over the noisy data sets and
you can now fill a function.
You're pretty confidently looks like
curve should be something like that.
A lot of AI had recently grown up in large
consumer Internet companies which may
have 100 million users or billion
users and does very large data sets.
And so, I think some of the practices for
how to deal with small data sets
have not been emphasized as much
as would be needed to tackle
problems where you don't have
100 million examples, but
only 1000 or even fewer.
So to me, the interesting case is what
if you still have a small data set?
Five examples same as
the example on the left.
But you now have clean and
consistent labels.
In this case you can pretty
confidently fit a function
through your data and
with only five examples.
You can build a pretty good model for
predicting speed
as a function of the input
voltage of trained computer
vision systems with just 30 images and
had to work just fine.
And the key is usually to make sure that
the labels are clean and consistent.
Let's take a look at another
example of phone defect inspection,
the tosses, the tickets,
input pictures like these and
to decide whether there is a defect or
not on the phone.
Now, if labeling instructions
are initially unclear,
then labors will label
images inconsistently.
It may be that when
there's a giant scratch,
sufficiently large one that everyone
will agree as a defect, and
if there's a tiny little thing
that inspectors will ignore it.
But there's this region of ambiguity
where different inspectors will label
different scratches with a length between
0.2 and 0.4 in slightly inconsistent ways.
So one solution to this would be to say,
why don't we try to get a lot more
pictures of phones and scratches.
And then see what the inspectors do and
then maybe eventually we
can train a neural network.
They can figure out from the image what
is and what isn't a scratch on average.
Maybe that approach could work,
but it'd be a lot of work and
require collecting a lot of images.
I found that it can be more fruitful
to ask the inspectors to sit down and
just try to reach agreement on
what is the size of scratch.
That would cause them to label
a scratcher of a bounding box versus
decide is too small and
not worth bothering labeling.
So in this example,
if the labelers can agree that the point
of transition from where
little ding becomes a defect.
Is a length of 0.3,
then the way they label the images
becomes much more consistent.
And it becomes much easier for
learning algorithm to take as input images
like this and consistently decide whether
something is a scratch of the effect..
Just to be clear.
In this example, the input to the learning
algorithm is images like that on the left,
not the stretched length
like that on the right.
But the point is, if you can get
inspectors to agree what is a scratch and
what is in the scratch.
And to define The task as
putting bounding boxes around
defects are over 0.3 mm in length.
Then that will cause your images to
be labeled more consistently and
allow your learning album
to achieve higher accuracy.
Even when your data set isn't that big.
So you see the couple
examples now of how label
consistency helps a learning algorithm.
I want to wrap up this video
with one more thought,
which is that big data problems can
have small data challenges too.
Specifically problems of the large
data set, but where there's a long
tail of rare events in the input
will have small data challenges too.
For example, the large web search engine
companies all have very large data
sets of web search queries, but
many web queries actually very rare.
And so the amount of click stream data for
the rare queries is actually small or
take self-driving cars.
Self-driving car companies tend
to have very large data sets,
collected from driving hundreds of
thousands or millions of hours or more.
But there are rare occurrences that
are critical to get right to make sure
a self-driving car is safe.
Such as that very rare occurrence of
a young child running across the highway,
or that very rare occurrence of
a truck parked across the highway.
So even if a self driving car
has a very large data set,
the number of examples that may have of
these rare events is actually very small.
And so ensuring label consistency
in terms of how these rare
events are detective and
labels is still very helpful for
improving self-driving cars or
product recommended systems.
If you have a catalog of hundreds
of thousands, or millions or
more items or
product recommendation systems.
If you have an online catalog of anywhere
from thousands to hundreds of thousands
to sometimes even millions of catalogs
to sometimes even millions of items.
Then you will have a lot of
products where the number sold
of that item is quite small.
And so the amount of data you
have of users interacting with
the items in the long
tail is actually small.
And if there's a way which is not easy,
but there's a way to make sure that data
is clean and consistent, then that
too will help you learning algorithm.
In terms of how it recommends or
doesn't recommend items
in the long tail where the amount of
data per item will tend to be low.
So when you have a small dataset
label consistency is critical.
Even when you have a big data set,
label consistency can be very important.
It's just that found it easier,
on average to get to label consistency on
smaller data sets than on very large ones.
In the next video, we'll look at some
concrete ideas and best practices for
improving your data,
says label consistency.
Let's go on to the next video.